TOC_ENHANCEMENTS.md, before:

# Enhanced Table of Contents (TOC) Features

## 🎯 Overview

The Table of Contents component has been significantly enhanced with accordion/collapsible functionality to improve user experience, especially on mobile devices.

## ✨ New Features

### 1. **Single-Section Accordion Interface**
- **Grouped sections**: H2 headings with collapsible H3+ subheadings
- **Exclusive expansion**: Only one section can be expanded at a time (classic accordion)
- **Smart auto-expand**: Active section automatically expands, others collapse
- **Smooth animations**: 300ms ease-in-out transitions for expand/collapse
- **Keyboard accessible**: Enter/Space keys for navigation and toggling

### 2. **Enhanced Mobile Experience**
- **Single-section focus**: Only one section expanded reduces cognitive load
- **Clean interface**: Collapsed sections keep the TOC compact and organized
- **Progress indicator**: Shows current reading section clearly
- **Touch-friendly**: Larger touch targets and improved spacing

### 3. **Visual Improvements**
- **Active section highlighting**: Current section highlighted with green accent
- **Smooth hover effects**: Scale and translate animations
- **Progress indicators**: Animated dots and progress bars
- **Reading progress**: Shows "Section X of Y" and visual progress bar
- **Navigation arrows**: Subtle arrows that animate on hover/active

### 4. **Accessibility Enhancements**
- **ARIA attributes**: Proper `aria-expanded`, `aria-label` support
- **Keyboard navigation**: Full keyboard support for all interactions
- **Focus management**: Clear focus indicators with ring styles
- **Screen reader friendly**: Semantic markup and descriptive labels
- **Reduced motion**: Respects `prefers-reduced-motion` setting

### 5. **Smart Navigation**
- **Smooth scrolling**: Proper header offset calculation (120px)
- **Active tracking**: Real-time scroll position tracking
- **Auto-ID generation**: Consistent heading ID generation
- **Deep linking**: Direct URL linking to sections

## 🎨 Design Features

### Visual Hierarchy
```
┌─ TOC Header ─────────────────────────┐
│ Title                                │
│ Subtitle (optional)                  │
│ Reading: Current Section             │
├─ Accordion Sections ─────────────────┤
│ ┌─ Section 1 ──────────────── [▼] ┐ │
│ │ ● Introduction               → │ │
│ │   ○ Getting Started         → │ │
│ │   ○ Prerequisites           → │ │
│ └─────────────────────────────────┘ │
│ ┌─ Section 2 (active) ──────── [▲] ┐│
│ │ ● Main Content (active)     → │ │
│ │   ○ Subsection 2.1          → │ │
│ │   ○ Subsection 2.2 (active) → │ │
│ └─────────────────────────────────┘ │
│ ┌─ Section 3 ──────────────── [▼] ┐ │
│ │ ● Conclusion                → │ │
│ └─────────────────────────────────┘ │
├─ Footer ──────────────────────────────┤
│ 3 sections    Reading section 2 of 3 │
│ [██████░░░░] Progress Bar            │
└──────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Color Scheme
- **Primary**: Forest Green (`#2A3D2F`) for active states
- **Secondary**: Stone Gray for inactive elements
- **Accent**: Equipment Yellow for progress indicators
- **Background**: Paper White with subtle shadows

### Responsive Behavior
- **Desktop (≥1024px)**: Always expanded, full features
- **Tablet (768-1023px)**: Collapsible, medium spacing
- **Mobile (<768px)**: Collapsed by default, compact design

## 🔧 Technical Implementation

### State Management
```typescript
const [isExpanded, setIsExpanded] = useState<boolean>(false);
const [isMobile, setIsMobile] = useState<boolean>(false);
const [activeId, setActiveId] = useState<string>('');
```

### Key Functions
- `toggleExpanded()`: Handles accordion toggle
- `scrollToSection(id)`: Smooth scroll with header offset
- `handleScroll()`: Active section tracking
- `checkMobile()`: Responsive behavior detection

### CSS Classes
- `.line-clamp-2`: Text truncation for descriptions
- `.toc-accordion-*`: Smooth expand/collapse animations
- `.toc-active-item`: Enhanced active state styling
- `.toc-progress-bar`: Gradient progress indicator

## 📱 Mobile Optimizations

### Collapsed State Features
- **Compact header**: Shows only title and toggle button
- **Progress indicator**: "Reading: Section Name" with animated dot
- **Quick access**: Single tap to expand full TOC

### Expanded State Features
- **Auto-collapse**: Closes after navigation to save screen space
- **Touch targets**: Minimum 44px touch targets for accessibility
- **Smooth animations**: Optimized for mobile performance

### Performance Considerations
- **Passive scroll listeners**: Optimized scroll event handling
- **Debounced resize**: Efficient responsive behavior detection
- **CSS transforms**: Hardware-accelerated animations

## 🎯 Usage Examples

### Basic Usage
```tsx
<TableOfContents 
  headings={extractedHeadings}
  title="Article Contents"
  enableScrollTracking={true}
/>
```

### With Custom Configuration
```tsx
<TableOfContents 
  headings={headings}
  title="Guide Navigation"
  subtitle="Jump to any section"
  showNumbers={true}
  enableScrollTracking={true}
  className="sticky top-8"
/>
```

### For Legal Pages
```tsx
<TableOfContents 
  sections={legalSections}
  title="Document Sections"
  showNumbers={true}
  enableScrollTracking={false}
/>
```

## 🧪 Testing Features

### TOCDebug Component
Added `<TOCDebug />` component for development testing:
- Shows extracted headings vs DOM headings
- Real-time active section tracking
- Test navigation buttons
- Debugging information display

### Manual Testing Checklist
- [ ] Accordion expands/collapses smoothly
- [ ] Mobile auto-collapse after navigation
- [ ] Active section highlighting works
- [ ] Keyboard navigation functional
- [ ] Progress indicators update correctly
- [ ] Smooth scrolling with proper offset
- [ ] Responsive behavior on resize
- [ ] Accessibility features working

## 🚀 Performance Impact

### Bundle Size
- **Minimal increase**: ~2KB gzipped for enhanced features
- **CSS optimizations**: Efficient animations and transitions
- **Tree shaking**: Unused features automatically removed

### Runtime Performance
- **Smooth 60fps**: Optimized animations and transitions
- **Efficient scrolling**: Passive event listeners
- **Memory efficient**: Proper cleanup of event listeners

## 🎉 Benefits

### User Experience
- **Faster navigation**: Quick access to any section
- **Better mobile UX**: Space-efficient collapsible design
- **Visual feedback**: Clear indication of reading progress
- **Accessibility**: Full keyboard and screen reader support

### Developer Experience
- **Easy integration**: Drop-in replacement for existing TOC
- **Flexible configuration**: Multiple customization options
- **Debug tools**: Built-in debugging component
- **TypeScript support**: Full type safety

### SEO Benefits
- **Better structure**: Improved content organization
- **Deep linking**: Direct section URL access
- **User engagement**: Increased time on page
- **Accessibility score**: Improved lighthouse scores

## 🔄 Migration Guide

### From Old TOC
```tsx
// Before
<TableOfContents headings={headings} />

// After (same API, enhanced features)
<TableOfContents headings={headings} />
```

### New Features Available
```tsx
// Enhanced with accordion
<TableOfContents 
  headings={headings}
  title="Enhanced Navigation"
  enableScrollTracking={true}
/>
```

The enhanced TOC is fully backward compatible while providing significant UX improvements!

Commit message:

feat: set all TOC sections to collapsed initial state
🎯 Enhanced TOC with clean initial state - all sections collapsed by default

Clean Initial State Benefits:
- All sections start collapsed on both desktop and mobile
- Minimal visual clutter when TOC first loads
- Users have full control over which sections to explore
- Consistent behavior across all device sizes

User Experience Improvements:
- Clean, uncluttered first impression of the TOC
- Users can scan all section titles without distraction
- Progressive disclosure - users choose what to expand
- Better overview of document structure at a glance

Behavior Changes:
- Removed auto-expansion of first section on desktop
- Consistent collapsed state across all devices
- Smart auto-expand still works during scroll navigation
- Manual expansion remains exclusive (one section at a time)

Benefits:
- Cleaner initial presentation
- Better document overview
- User-driven content exploration
- Reduced cognitive load on first view
- More predictable behavior

Impact: TOC now provides the cleanest possible initial state
while maintaining all smart expansion features during navigation.

TOC_ENHANCEMENTS.md, after:

# Enhanced Table of Contents (TOC) Features

## 🎯 Overview

The Table of Contents component has been significantly enhanced with accordion/collapsible functionality to improve user experience, especially on mobile devices.

## ✨ New Features

### 1. **Single-Section Accordion Interface**
- **Grouped sections**: H2 headings with collapsible H3+ subheadings
- **Exclusive expansion**: Only one section can be expanded at a time (classic accordion)
- **Clean initial state**: All sections collapsed by default for minimal visual clutter
- **Smart auto-expand**: Active section automatically expands, others collapse
- **Smooth animations**: 300ms ease-in-out transitions for expand/collapse
- **Keyboard accessible**: Enter/Space keys for navigation and toggling

### 2. **Enhanced Mobile Experience**
- **Single-section focus**: Only one section expanded reduces cognitive load
- **Clean interface**: Collapsed sections keep the TOC compact and organized
- **Progress indicator**: Shows current reading section clearly
- **Touch-friendly**: Larger touch targets and improved spacing

### 3. **Visual Improvements**
- **Active section highlighting**: Current section highlighted with green accent
- **Smooth hover effects**: Scale and translate animations
- **Progress indicators**: Animated dots and progress bars
- **Reading progress**: Shows "Section X of Y" and visual progress bar
- **Navigation arrows**: Subtle arrows that animate on hover/active

### 4. **Accessibility Enhancements**
- **ARIA attributes**: Proper `aria-expanded`, `aria-label` support
- **Keyboard navigation**: Full keyboard support for all interactions
- **Focus management**: Clear focus indicators with ring styles
- **Screen reader friendly**: Semantic markup and descriptive labels
- **Reduced motion**: Respects `prefers-reduced-motion` setting

### 5. **Smart Navigation**
- **Smooth scrolling**: Proper header offset calculation (120px)
- **Active tracking**: Real-time scroll position tracking
- **Auto-ID generation**: Consistent heading ID generation
- **Deep linking**: Direct URL linking to sections

## 🎨 Design Features

### Visual Hierarchy
```
┌─ TOC Header ─────────────────────────┐
│ Title                                │
│ Subtitle (optional)                  │
│ Reading: Current Section             │
├─ Accordion Sections ─────────────────┤
│ ┌─ Section 1 ──────────────── [▼] ┐ │
│ │ ● Introduction               → │ │
│ │   ○ Getting Started         → │ │
│ │   ○ Prerequisites           → │ │
│ └─────────────────────────────────┘ │
│ ┌─ Section 2 (active) ──────── [▲] ┐│
│ │ ● Main Content (active)     → │ │
│ │   ○ Subsection 2.1          → │ │
│ │   ○ Subsection 2.2 (active) → │ │
│ └─────────────────────────────────┘ │
│ ┌─ Section 3 ──────────────── [▼] ┐ │
│ │ ● Conclusion                → │ │
│ └─────────────────────────────────┘ │
├─ Footer ──────────────────────────────┤
│ 3 sections    Reading section 2 of 3 │
│ [██████░░░░] Progress Bar            │
└──────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Color Scheme
- **Primary**: Forest Green (`#2A3D2F`) for active states
- **Secondary**: Stone Gray for inactive elements
- **Accent**: Equipment Yellow for progress indicators
- **Background**: Paper White with subtle shadows

### Responsive Behavior
- **Desktop (≥1024px)**: Always expanded, full features
- **Tablet (768-1023px)**: Collapsible, medium spacing
- **Mobile (<768px)**: Collapsed by default, compact design

## 🔧 Technical Implementation

### State Management
```typescript
const [isExpanded, setIsExpanded] = useState<boolean>(false);
const [isMobile, setIsMobile] = useState<boolean>(false);
const [activeId, setActiveId] = useState<string>('');
```

### Key Functions
- `toggleExpanded()`: Handles accordion toggle
- `scrollToSection(id)`: Smooth scroll with header offset
- `handleScroll()`: Active section tracking
- `checkMobile()`: Responsive behavior detection

### CSS Classes
- `.line-clamp-2`: Text truncation for descriptions
- `.toc-accordion-*`: Smooth expand/collapse animations
- `.toc-active-item`: Enhanced active state styling
- `.toc-progress-bar`: Gradient progress indicator

## 📱 Mobile Optimizations

### Collapsed State Features
- **Compact header**: Shows only title and toggle button
- **Progress indicator**: "Reading: Section Name" with animated dot
- **Quick access**: Single tap to expand full TOC

### Expanded State Features
- **Auto-collapse**: Closes after navigation to save screen space
- **Touch targets**: Minimum 44px touch targets for accessibility
- **Smooth animations**: Optimized for mobile performance

### Performance Considerations
- **Passive scroll listeners**: Optimized scroll event handling
- **Debounced resize**: Efficient responsive behavior detection
- **CSS transforms**: Hardware-accelerated animations

## 🎯 Usage Examples

### Basic Usage
```tsx
<TableOfContents 
  headings={extractedHeadings}
  title="Article Contents"
  enableScrollTracking={true}
/>
```

### With Custom Configuration
```tsx
<TableOfContents 
  headings={headings}
  title="Guide Navigation"
  subtitle="Jump to any section"
  showNumbers={true}
  enableScrollTracking={true}
  className="sticky top-8"
/>
```

### For Legal Pages
```tsx
<TableOfContents 
  sections={legalSections}
  title="Document Sections"
  showNumbers={true}
  enableScrollTracking={false}
/>
```

## 🧪 Testing Features

### TOCDebug Component
Added `<TOCDebug />` component for development testing:
- Shows extracted headings vs DOM headings
- Real-time active section tracking
- Test navigation buttons
- Debugging information display

### Manual Testing Checklist
- [ ] Accordion expands/collapses smoothly
- [ ] Mobile auto-collapse after navigation
- [ ] Active section highlighting works
- [ ] Keyboard navigation functional
- [ ] Progress indicators update correctly
- [ ] Smooth scrolling with proper offset
- [ ] Responsive behavior on resize
- [ ] Accessibility features working

## 🚀 Performance Impact

### Bundle Size
- **Minimal increase**: ~2KB gzipped for enhanced features
- **CSS optimizations**: Efficient animations and transitions
- **Tree shaking**: Unused features automatically removed

### Runtime Performance
- **Smooth 60fps**: Optimized animations and transitions
- **Efficient scrolling**: Passive event listeners
- **Memory efficient**: Proper cleanup of event listeners

## 🎉 Benefits

### User Experience
- **Faster navigation**: Quick access to any section
- **Better mobile UX**: Space-efficient collapsible design
- **Visual feedback**: Clear indication of reading progress
- **Accessibility**: Full keyboard and screen reader support

### Developer Experience
- **Easy integration**: Drop-in replacement for existing TOC
- **Flexible configuration**: Multiple customization options
- **Debug tools**: Built-in debugging component
- **TypeScript support**: Full type safety

### SEO Benefits
- **Better structure**: Improved content organization
- **Deep linking**: Direct section URL access
- **User engagement**: Increased time on page
- **Accessibility score**: Improved lighthouse scores

## 🔄 Migration Guide

### From Old TOC
```tsx
// Before
<TableOfContents headings={headings} />

// After (same API, enhanced features)
<TableOfContents headings={headings} />
```

### New Features Available
```tsx
// Enhanced with accordion
<TableOfContents 
  headings={headings}
  title="Enhanced Navigation"
  enableScrollTracking={true}
/>
```

The enhanced TOC is fully backward compatible while providing significant UX improvements!
